[daggy-u] [dbt] - Add Lesson 5 (DEV-57) (#19947)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/dagster-university/pages/dagster-dbt/lesson-5/2-connecting-dbt-models-to-dagster-assets.md

However, you can override its methods by making a new class that inherits from and provides your logic for a dbt model. Refer to the `dagster-dbt` package’s [API Reference](https://docs.dagster.io/_apidocs/libraries/dagster-dbt#dagster_dbt.DagsterDbtTranslator) for more info on the different functions you can override in the `DagsterDbtTranslator` class.

For now, we’ll customize how asset keys are defined by overriding the translator’s `get_asset_key` method.

Open the `assets/dbt.py` file and do the following:

1. Update the imports to include:
   - From the `dagster_dbt` module, import `DagsterDbtTranslator`
   - From the `dagster` module, import `AssetKey`

2. Create a new class called `CustomizedDagsterDbtTranslator` that inherits from the `DagsterDbtTranslator`. Add this code after the imports in `assets/dbt.py`:
    
   ```python
   class CustomizedDagsterDbtTranslator(DagsterDbtTranslator):
   ```
    
3. In this class, create a method called `get_asset_key.`

>    This is a Pythonic `@classmethod` of the `DagsterDbtTranslator`, so let’s annotate it with the `@classmethod` decorator and have its first argument be `cls`, which is a reference to [the class methods](https://builtin.com/software-engineering-perspectives/python-cls). The second argument refers to a dictionary/JSON object for the dbt model’s properties, which is based on the manifest file from earlier. Let’s call that second argument `dbt_resource_props`. The return value of this function is an object of the `AssetKey` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This is a method of `DagsterDbtTranslator` class that we'll override and customize to do as we need. It is a `@classmethod`, so we'll annotate it with the `@classmethod` decorator and have its first argument be `cls`, to follow [Pythonic conventions](https://builtin.com/software-engineering-perspectives/python-cls). The second argument refers to a dictionary/JSON object for the dbt model’s properties, which is based on the manifest file from earlier. Let’s call that second argument `dbt_resource_props`. The return value of this function is an object of the `AssetKey` class.
```

      
              return AssetKey(f"taxi_{name}")
      ```
        
   3. You have full control over how each asset can be named, as you can define how asset keys are created. In our case we only want to rename the dbt sources, but we can keep the asset keys of the models the same. 
   
      The object-oriented pattern of the `DagsterDbtTranslator` means that we can leverage the existing implementations of the parent class by using the `super` method. We’ll use this pattern to customize how the sources are defined but default to the original logic for deciding the model asset keys. Copy and paste the code below to complete the `get_asset_key` function:
       
      ```python
          @classmethod
          def get_asset_key(cls, dbt_resource_props):
              resource_type = dbt_resource_props["resource_type"]
              name = dbt_resource_props["name"]
              if resource_type == "source":
                  return AssetKey(f"taxi_{name}")
              else:
                  return super().get_asset_key(dbt_resource_props)
      ```
      
      You’ve successfully written your first translator! 
      
      {% callout %}

>       > 💡 **Important!** dbt models and Dagster asset keys must be unique. If you're receiving a `DuplicateKeyError` , verify that the logic in `get_asset_key`  doesn't return two of the same key!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      > 💡 **Important!** dbt models and Dagster asset keys must be unique. If you're receiving a `DuplicateKeyError` , add some logging to verify that the logic in `get_asset_key` doesn't return two of the same key for different values!
```
